---
title: "Profitability of Movies (1970-2015) via IMDB"
date: 2020-05-17
tags: [Tableau, Excel]
excerpt: "Visualize movie data from the IMDB"
mathjax: "true"
---

This visualization was made using data coming from the IMDB, a database for all information pertaining to movies. This includes the budget, revenue, IMBD Rating, director, country, genre, social media activity, lead actor, and so on.

After taking an Excel course to master skills with PivotTables, I wanted to know more about the data and I thought visualizing it using Tableau would give me an insight that PivotTables could not. Specifically, I wanted to understand which countries were most profitable (per year), how profitable each genre is (per year), and the volume at which they were producing movies in that genre. This would give me a more robust idea about which countries are most successful with movie production. 

As a note, the averages are calculated using the COUNTD function which gives a count of unique values so as to not multi-count the same year. Thus, the averages account for whether a movie in that country or genre was made in that specific year or not. In other words, a country or genre is not punished for not making a movie in a given year.

The map is a filter for both bar charts. Both bar charts are filters for the map, but not for each other.

<iframe src="https://public.tableau.com/shared/W3BGJMYWF?:showVizHome=no&:embed=true" width="100%" height="800"></iframe>

As can be clearly seen, the United States is by far the most profitable country with movie production. They average slightly more than \$1B in profit per year. Their most profitable genres per year are Comedy (\$374M), Action (\$287.3M), and Adventure (\$216.6M). After these there is a steep drop off with the gap between the fourth place Drama movies and the third place Adventure movies being over \$100M. Unsurprisingly, these same genres constitute the most made movies by count in the same order with the exception of Adventure movies who flip with Drama movies. Free market capitalism at work!

Interesting results: 

* South Korea is the least profitable country, averaging over $2B in loss every year they made a movie
* The next closest to the United States in terms of profitability is South Africa who averages $34.6M in profit. The gap is over \$1B