---
title: "Tableau: Cluster Analysis of ROMI for a Dry Cleaning Service"
date: 2020-05-18
tags: [Tableau, Data Analysis, Cluster Analysis]
excerpt: "Understand what cities have the best Return on Marketing Investment"
mathjax: "true"
---

This project comes from Kirill Eremenko's Tableau Data Visualization course on Udemy. The data is not from a real dry cleaning service and is meant to understand data analysis and data vizualization concepts in a business intelligence context. 

**The project objective was to determine which cities were making the most of their marketing campaigns so that we know who we should invest more in**. We determined that this could be done by examining ROMI, Return on Marketing Investment. 

<iframe src="https://public.tableau.com/views/DryCleaningClusterAnalysis/Dashboard1?:showVizHome=no&:embed=true" width="100%" height="800"></iframe>

A cluster analysis based on marketing expenditures (horizontal axis), revenue (vertical axis), and the population of that city would give an insight into not only which groups were doing well on ROMI, but it would also account for market capacity. Larger cities often may see increased revenue as marketing expenditures increase due to there being a larger set of unreached potential clients, whereas the limit for a smaller city would be much lower. But instead of examining volume of revenue, we are more interested in the rate at which that revenue is increasing after investing in marketing. So which cities are making the most of their opportunities?

We can see from our cluster analysis that Cluster 1 (blue) has the greatest potential for revenue increase based on marketing expenditures. So even though the *volume* of revenue is greater for Cluster 2, the rate at which revenue increases after an increase in marketing expenditure is higher for Cluster 1 (\$7.3 revenue per dollar marketing expenditure v. \$3.17 revenue per dollar marketing expenditure). **Thus we would choose to invest more in the cities that make up Cluster 1.**

Considering average population of the city was not the most obvious or intuitive variable to consider. But, clearly, there is a marked difference between these two clusters.